# Remote Pairing

Back in 2017, I published my opinion of remote pairing at [https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/remote-pairing-xin-zhang/?trackingId=zPP7jxc8QuWWI2e3yVN6Vw%3D%3D].
After 6 years, let me revisit this topic and share more insight.

Before pedanmic in year 2020, remote is minority in work place.
People have to figure out mostly on their own how to work remotely effectively.
This involves setting up home office, time/geo boundaries around the house, and team dynamics to be inclusive to the remote peers.

Post pedanmic in year 2023, working from home is a common practice.
However, return to office (RTO) gets more attention as people discovered a default way of working from home solo will hurt the productivity, namely:
- the distractions from home responsibilities, e.g. house chores, kids, etc.
- the social isolation of long time working from home, e.g. missing water-cooler talk, lack of face-to-face communications
- the technical challenges, e.g. unreliable ISP, poor audio/video equipment, noisy neighbours, lack of dedicated home office

Last time, I mentioned `remote buddy` to keep people accountable during remote working.
This time, I want to share some of my experiences of addressing the additional issues mentioned above.

## Distrations from Home Responsibilities

Since there is no geo fence to shield me from the home distractions, I established new boundaries around my house:
- Time Boundary: 
  - Core: 9am-6pm CT for pairing and meetings
    - with fixed lunch break aligned with US west cost (12:30pm to 1:30pm) from 2:30pm to 3:30pm CT.
    - with fixed dinner break from 6pm to 7pm CT.
  - Extended: 7pm-9pm CT for cross-geo meetings only
    - mostly with US west coast, China, and India peers.
  - Light Friday:
    - since I may work ~10 hours from Monday to Thursday, I make Friday very light
    - mostly team planning meetings (pre-IPM), retro meetings, team bonding meetings, and backlog grooming metings in the morning
        - this also aligned well with company wide breaks nicely for people to take a longer break
    - and very light afternoon

Here is the context, I lived in Central Time Zone and work with peers from US west coast, US east coast, Canada east coast, Europe, India, and China.
The above schedule help me clearly setup time boundaries between myself, my peers, and my family.

First of all, the family time boundary.
Everyday, after 9am, my family knows I will start working. After few conflicts, I start to establish this rountine with the family.
They also expect I am free during the two meal times.

Also, we defined emergency handling protocol. If my door is closed, that means I am in a meeting cannot be interrupted.
If it's really an emergency, e.g. water pipe break, kitchen on-fire triggered fire alarm, etc., then my wife knock on the door, and left a post-it.
So that, I can properly communicate the emergency to the meeting and handle those.

Second, the team boundary.
Now, people clearly know when I will be online and responsive to the slack.
(I still not responsive to the email, only use fragmented time to check my emails.)

## Social Isolation

I am wondering if people tested on how long a person can work solo until they feel isolated.
My time is like 4 hours. If I don't talk to my peers for 4 hours, I start to feel the isolation.
If it last for the whole workday, like 8 hours, then I feel really isolated.

I know my weakness, so I work the best to keep myself connected.
Most time I observed from other practices, the company communications are through emails and group meetings, and occastionally direct messages like teams and slack.
Those communication channels can exchange the business information, but doesn't build the social connection directly.

The emails are actually async communication channel. I can imaging person's intention or reaction when reading or writing emails, but I cannot actually see it.
The email system is a great channel to have high-bandwith communication, e.g. large amount of information transfer, but doesn't need real-time feedback.
However, it's not a system designed for real-time communication, even though I do see people using email as a group chat platform.

Then, the group meetings. 
The group meetings are good for sharing context, usually in broadcasting fashion.
It's good to collect real-time feedback from the participates.
However, the group meetings need to be relevant to me.
I keep cutting down meeting invitations that's not very relevant.

(To-be-continued)